# RNA dinucleotide/trinucleotide fragment library

Authors: Sjoerd de Vries, Isaure Chauvot de Beauchene, CNRS.

License: Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0

## Contents

### library/

The coordinates and PDB origins (i.e. provenance) of each conformer of the library.

The library is in Numpy format, containing only the coordinates.
For the corresponding PDB files, see <https://github.com/sjdv1982/nucleotide-fragment-templates>

There is a coordinate file for each of the sequence motifs:
    - dinucleotide library: AA, AC, CA, CC
    - trinucleotide library: AAA, AAC, ACA, ACC, CAA, CAC, CCA, CCC  
The mutate.py tool can be used to generate coordinate files for sequence motifs containing G and U.

The library is at two levels of precision: 0.5A and 1.0A.
For each precision level, for each sequence motif, there are three coordinate array files:

    - The primary coordinates. This file contains coordinates of the heart of each cluster with multi-PDB origin.
    The PDB origin of each cluster heart is provided in a text file.
    
    - The replacement coordinates, of the same length as the primary coordinates. For each primary fragment, it contains the closest fragment from the same cluster that comes from a different PDB. This is used to replace some of the primary coordinates when modeling one of the PDBs that
    was used to build the library.

    - The extension coordinates. These contain *singletons*, i.e. fragments that are seen in only
    one PDB (if that PDB is being modeled, the extension coordinates must be filtered). The extension coordinates contain fragments that have been shown to improve the closest fit of *other* singletons, i.e. at the precision range that it poorer than the library precision.

### output/

The output files generated by the nucleotide-build-library pipeline.

The input of that pipeline is a coordinate array of non-redundant fragments. All files in the `output/` folder contain fragment indices (starting at 1) that refer to this input array.

The following files are present:

- The clustering results at 0.5A, 1.0A and 2.0A
- The results of choosing primary, replacement and extension fragments
- The analysis results of computing the "closest fit" (i.e. nearest neighbour) of each of the input fragments, using the clustering files to speed up the calculation.
